Notes on GCC's Native Language Support

By and large, only diagnostic messages have been internationalized.
Some work remains in other areas; for example, GCC does not yet allow
non-ASCII letters in identifiers.

Not all of GCC's diagnostic messages have been internationalized. Programs
like `genattr' (in fact all gen* programs) are not internationalized, as
their users are GCC maintainers who typically need to be able to read
English anyway; internationalizing them would thus entail needless work for
the human translators. Messages used for debugging, such as used in dumped
tables, should also not be translated.

The GCC library should not contain any messages that need
internationalization, because it operates below the internationalization
library.

Unlike some other GNU programs, the GCC sources contain few instances
of explicit translation calls like _("string").  Instead, the
diagnostic printing routines automatically translate their arguments.
For example, GCC source code should not contain calls like `error
(_("unterminated comment"))'; it should contain calls like `error
("unterminated comment")' instead, as it is the `error' function's
responsibility to translate the message before the user sees it.

In general, use no markup for strings that are the immediate format string
argument of a diagnostic function.  Use G_("str") for strings that will be
used as the format string for a diagnostic but are e.g. assigned to a
variable first.  Use N_("str") for strings that are not diagnostic format
strings, but will still be translated later.  Use _("str") for strings that
will not be translated elsewhere.  It's important not to use _("str") in
the initializer of a statically allocated variable; use one of the others
instead and make sure that uses of that variable translate the string,
whether directly with _(msg) or by passing it to a diagnostic or other
function that performs the translation.

Avoid using %s to compose a diagnostic message from multiple translatable
strings; instead, write out the full diagnostic message for each variant.
Only use %s for message components that do not need translation, such as
keywords.

By convention, any function parameter in the GCC sources whose name
ends in `msgid' is expected to be a message requiring translation.
If the parameter name ends with `gmsgid', it is assumed to be a GCC
diagnostics format string requiring translation, if it ends with
`cmsgid', it is assumed to be a format string for `printf' family
of functions, requiring a translation.
For example, the `error' function's first parameter is named `gmsgid'.
GCC's exgettext script uses this convention to determine which
function parameter strings need to be translated.  The exgettext
script also assumes that any occurrence of `%eMSGID}' on a source
line, where MSGID does not contain `%' or `}', corresponds to a
message MSGID that requires translation; this is needed to identify
diagnostics in GCC spec strings.
The `G_(GMSGID)' macro defined in intl.h can be used to mark GCC diagnostics
format strings as requiring translation, but other than that it is a
no-op at runtime.

If you modify source files, you'll need at least version 0.14.15 of the
GNU gettext package to propagate the modifications to the translation
tables.

After having built and installed these gettext tools, you have to
configure GCC with --enable-maintainer-mode to get the master catalog
rebuilt.


Copyright (C) 1998-2025 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
notice and this notice are preserved.
